# Git and Github

## Git

Basic comands:
- ***git init*** - initializing new git repositorium
- ***git status*** - show list of files that are changed, and their tracking status
- ***git add \<filename>*** - adding new/changed file to staged files
- ***git rm \<filename> [-r]*** - removing file from git repositorum. Option [-r], will remove recursevly all files in case of directorium(folder)
- ***git commit \[-m \<commitMessage\>\]*** - create commit with staged changes, with message
- ***git diff \<filename>***- running diff tool on file to compare changes on selected versions
- ***git log*** - shows list of commits
- ***git stash*** - stashes local changes, that can be review and recovered later on.

Branch managment:

- ***git branch \<branchName>*** - creating new branch with *branchName*
- ***git checkout \<branchName>*** - changes the working branch to *branchName*
- ***git checkout -b \<branchName>*** - creates new branch and changes the working branch to new created one

Remote repository managment:

- ***git clone \<repositoriumUrl>*** - gets remote repositorium in *repositoriumUrl* on your local machine
- ***git pull*** - if there was some changes on remote repositorium, command will update your local repositorium with those changes
- ***git push*** - pushes local changes (commits) to remote repositorium. If there is a difference in version of local and remote, *git pull* is required


## .gitignore file

***.gitignore*** file is file that can be added to Git repositorium, to specify files,extensions, folders, using regex
 which git system should not track (it will ignore those file, and changes on those files).
 
 Example of usage:
 When building a C++ project, we get some object files (.o) or executables that we dont want to track, or push to remore repositorium.
 Those files are generated by build system localy, and therefore used in that purpose. So, we usualy exlude those files

## Github

***Github*** is a remote service to store and access git repositoriums. 
The  to provide users remote storage for their repositoriums, and enable easy collaboration, preview, share
 and dev tools (code review, sharing, build track etc.) for developers and variety of technology.

Other similar services to GitHub: GitLab, GitBucket, SourceForge

# Documentation
[Youtube tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVRQoVRzMIY)

[Official Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)

[Official GitHub Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en)
